In this lesson, I'll show you how to use the provided FTP credentials at managed and self-managed hosts
like flywheel and grid pain.
You'll also learn how to download and set up to free FTP programs, files, zila and FTP client light.
By the end of this video, you'll know how to access files on the server when your host doesn't provide
an included file manager.
Let's talk about how to access the files on a host that doesn't have an integrated file manager, and
you'll be forced to use an FTP or secure FTP program on your computer to access those files.
I'll show you how to set that up and how to access the credentials that your hosting company so that
you can access the files easily at your hosting server.
And once it's set up, it's easy to turn on signing sign in and then download or upload files if you
need to.
And so here you see me logged in to my flywheels hosting account flywheels, an example of a managed
WordPress host that doesn't offer an integrated file manager, even though you've seen they offer an
integrated database manager under each of your sites.
Now, in Flywheel, in order to get your FTP credentials, it's not under the site itself.
You won't find the FTP credentials under the site dashboard, but under your account dashboard up here
at the top.
So a click account right here.
And then that brings up on my account page.
The FTP access that just stands for secure FTP, which means that the data is encrypted going back and
forth.
And so here are the credentials.
There's a SFP dot, you know, address telling me what port to use and gives me a username, and it's
telling me to use my flywheel password.
OK, so if I open my FTP program, the one I generally use on my Windows computer is file zila, and
I'm going to show you how to download that without getting any of the extra advertising or bundled software
that sometimes inadvertently comes with it when people download files zilla.
It's not got any malware or anything like that.
File Zila is an open source, free FTP program for my Mac.
I tend to use one called FTP Client Lite, which is an extension for the Chrome browser.
It's called SFP Client free to use, and you can click Add to Chrome from the website there.
But if I go back to the flywheel site right here and I will open up my File Zilla program, file zilla
and all FTP programs generally give you a window a side on the left where you can navigate to your computer
and on the right, depending on how you have it set up, where you're navigating to the server, and
then you can drag your items over or to upload, and you can drag them back to download to and from
the server.
And so I'm going to go here up to where I have my site's management area, and I'll just click new site
and I'll choose the credentials that flywheels given me.
So I'll pause the video and put those in now.
So what I've done is I changed the protocol from FTP to SS FTP so that it is secure.
I pasted the hostname here and put Port 22 in.
I put my username and my password for my flywheel account, and now I'll click Connect.
So it gives me a message up here and tells me what's going on.
It looks like I'm connected, so here's where the files are located.
This is just I can navigate to folders if I want to.
And then this is the one site.
If you had more than one site at your flywheel account, they would all be listed here with different
folders.
And so I can double click this folder, which is called G.E.D. Flywheel.
And now I'm navigating to the actual files on the Flywheel server for that website.
And so it looks like I have the WP content folder.
There's a flywheel config.
You can see that there's a little bit of a different structure here with Flywheel.
The one the really hidden the rest of the WordPress files in a different place.
So Flywheel Config contains some plugins that Flywheel uses to customize your managed WordPress hosting
area.
And so back under flywheel, I do have access to the WP content folder, which is where all my content
and files like the media library and importantly, plugins and themes are located.
And so if I needed to deactivate a plugin, I could just go under plug ins and rename it like we did
in local.
Now, in this fresh WordPress installation, I don't have any plug ins up.
Let's see if I have any themes.
Now I have the three themes in 2020 to 2021 and 2020, and so that's how I set up the FTP access.
If I needed to, I could drag any file or folder from here over to my computer or vice versa, from
my computer over to the right hand side and upload it into the server itself.
One of the things to note is that in flywheel, because it's a managed WordPress host, they take control
of the WP config file and you actually have to ask their permission if you want to add or remove anything
from the config file right here.
You can download a copy of it and take a look at it, but if you upload it, it won't actually take
effect.
And that's something they do to protect your websites and your website files from any kind of mistakes
that you might make, and they just take control of it.
It's one of the effects of the managed WordPress space.
Now let's take a look at grid pain.
I'm at my grid pain site here, and it works just a little bit differently if I wanted to log in to
a grid pain website.
I don't get access in one FTP account for all of my grid pain sites.
I actually have to go in and find the system user that gets created when I create a new site.
So if I go under sites just to show you if I was starting to select, you know, a new site, it opens
up this area where it's telling me what I want to do as a with a system user.
And it's a best practice to create a new system user every time you create a new site with grid pain.
And what that means is that each system user in each site is separately accessed and so you can actually
separate your client sites all separately from one another, even if they're on the same server.
And you need a different FTP account for each site on that server.
And so to find my credentials for an existing site in grid pain, I could go to sites and say I wanted
to, you know, look up one of my sites under the leveraged WP brand.
If I want to go to leverage DV, for example, that site exists at this IP address.
And so basically for file zilla, I would set up, let's see if I just hit the button.
I'll disconnect from Flywheel here, and I'll open up this accounts site manager again.
And let's look at Leverage Divvy.
This is the existing site that I've set up, and so it already has the credentials.
I change it to FTP.
I put that IP address that I just showed you right here.
That's the IP address for my own dedicated server.
Put that into my file zilla.
It'll do the port automatically, but I could choose Port 22 if I want to.
Then I have to find the user and the password that was auto created for that site.
And so here in grid pain, that's not located here under the site itself.
But if I look under leveraged TV, I can see that the user name is here.
It's the user two oh, nine four six.
Let's look here and file zilla.
There's my user leverage div two oh nine four six.
And to find the password, it's.
Quite easy.
I just go into grid pain and I go under system users, and then I can see all of my system users down
here so I could go ahead and look for leverage and I could find the leverage device system user that
I need the leverage div two oh, nine four six.
Now it's the one on the array of dedicated server, not at this one.
This is an old system user that I was using before when I was having this site installed on a different
server, so I need to choose the correct one.
And then I would just use this little AI and it comes up with my details about that system user.
This is part of the password.
I'm not going to reveal it here, but I could scroll this scroll wheel over and copy that password and
then paste it into file zilla here.
And then when I connect, that connects to the sites and you can see it's a little different structure.
Then Flywheel was using.
But under sites, I just have access to one site per system user, as is a best practice and I can go
to leverage DV.
And now I have some proprietary grid pain things.
But I also have the HDD docks and that is where I have all of the WordPress files, including the WP
config file.
That is actually it's one level higher here in great pain, but I do have access to it if I click.
This can see the WP config is right here and in fact, over here I am accessing the leverage.
Oh, this is for leverage WordPress.
But I have edited the WP config file for certain things I've needed to do, and you can easily edit
it and use that using FTP when you're using grid paint, unlike Flywheel.
But then Docs has the rest of the of the files and the folders, including WP content.
So under WP content, here is the plugins folder and there's a list of plugins here.
If I needed to turn any of them off, I could just simply click and rename one of those to regain access
to the website if it was a plugin conflict or something like that.
Let me show you how to download files zila without any of the bundled software, as well as to how to
find and install the FTP client software for the Chrome browser.
Either work for Windows or for Mac, and I'm just familiar with File Zila.
It's always been free and a great FTP program.
However, it is supported by a little bit of advertising and bundled software, so I'll show you specifically
how to get file zila all by itself without any bundled software.
And so if you're on the file zilla home page, when you click Download File Zila Client, that's the
one we're looking for.
We're looking for the FTP client, which, like an email client, is just an FTP program, like an email
program, you know, like Outlook or Mac Mail or Thunderbird, something like that.
So download the server is not what you want.
That's if you're going to make files available for others on your own computer.
And so the client is what you want, but you want to look at the different platforms and download the
right one for your platform.
You can also get to this next page by File Zilla.
Download this download button at the top left here.
But if you click either one of those, you'll be brought to this page where it detects the computer
you're on and it gives you the appropriate kind.
And so it's important to look that you want Windows 64 bit if you're me, but whatever you have here,
that'll be the one that you want to download.
But now here's the important part Instead of clicking the green button that says below, this installer
may include bundled offers, you can check below for more options.
I would suggest that you check below for additional download options here and choose the one that it
chose for you up here.
And so I'm looking for Windows 64 bit.
When I click that, it gives me all the plain vanilla file zilla versions with no bundled software.
And so there's all these different versions, and so I would click this one right here.
Files Zilla win 64 setup dot ICSI and then go through the process of clicking the buttons to install
the program, you know, and approving that you're installing a program from a trusted source.
Just make sure you're on the File Zilla Dash Project dot org.
That's the correct website if you search Google for files.
This is the first couple of things that'll come up.
Just make sure you're downloading it from this trusted source and that you go in and don't get the bundled
software, but go in and get this whatever version you want.
Dot ICSI and it'll begin installing right away and then you can go ahead and set up and use it.
Very easy to use.
Now, as far as the FTP client, this is the Lite version.
The free version it is an extension for Chrome, although it opens as a separate program when I use
it on my Mac.
It's just easy to use.
I open Chrome and I can find FTP right here in my toolbar or over here.
If you can't find it there under more tools or under extensions, you can find it there.
Now, do I have it installed here?
I do.
As FTP Client Light, it shows as installed as a Chrome app, and it is a great program that can be
trusted.
You just click Add to Chrome and it'll install it as if it's a program on your computer.
Leveraging the power of Chrome and the Chrome browser.
And so that gives you an idea of where to get to free FTP programs.
There's also one called Cyber Duck.
There's a number of different free FTP programs available out there.
If you like, just use the one that you're most comfortable with, and if you already have one, just
keep using that one.